What is a SQL Server Trigger?
----------------------------
A SQL Server trigger is a piece of procedural code, like a stored procedure which is only executed when a given event happens. There are different types of events that can fire a trigger. Just to name you a few, the insertion of rows in a table, a change in a table structure and even a user logging into a SQL Server instance.

There are three main characteristics that make triggers different than stored procedures:

Triggers cannot be manually executed by the user.
There is no chance for triggers to receive parameters.
You cannot commit or rollback a transaction inside a trigger.


Classes of SQL Server Triggers:
-------------------------------
There are two classes of triggers in SQL Server:

DDL (Data Definition Language) triggers. This class of triggers fires upon events that change the structure (like creating, modifying or dropping a table), or in certain server related events like security changes or statistics update events.
DML (Data Modification Language) triggers. This is the most used class of triggers. In this case the firing event is a data modification statement; it could be an insert, update or delete statement either on a table or a view.



A trigger is a special type of stored procedure that automatically runs when an event occurs in the database server. DML triggers run when a user tries to modify data through a data manipulation language (DML) event. DML events are INSERT, UPDATE, or DELETE statements on a table or view. These triggers fire when any valid event fires, whether table rows are affected or not


DDL:create,alter,drop,rename,truncate
DML:insert,select,update,dalete 
DCL:Data Control Language  :------ grant,invoke
TCL:Transaction Control Languages : ------commit,rollback


Triggers
Triggers are database operations which are automatically performed when an action such as Insert, Update or Delete is performed on a Table or a View in database.
Triggers are associated with the Table or View directly i.e. each table has its own Triggers.
 
Types of Triggers
There are two types of Triggers. After and Instead of Triggers.
After Triggers
These triggers are executed after an action such as Insert, Update or Delete is performed.
 
Instead of Triggers
These triggers are executed instead of any of the Insert, Update or Delete operations. For example, let’s say you write an Instead of Trigger for Delete operation, then whenever a Delete is performed the Trigger will be executed first and if the Trigger deletes record then only the record will be deleted.

-------------------
example:
After Triggers
Now I will explain you with examples the After Triggers for Insert, Update and Delete operations.
Insert Trigger
Below is an example of an After Insert Trigger. Whenever a row is inserted in the sample Table, the following trigger will be executed. The newly inserted record is available in the INSERTED table.
The following Trigger is fetching the CustomerId of the inserted record and the fetched value is inserted in the CustomerLogs table.



CREATE TRIGGER [dbo].[CUSTOMER_INSERT_TRIGGER]
       ON [dbo].[sample]
AFTER INSERT
AS
BEGIN
       SET NOCOUNT ON;
 
       DECLARE @Id INT
 
       SELECT @Id = INSERTED.Id       
       FROM INSERTED
 
       INSERT INTO CustomerLogs
       VALUES(@Id, 'Inserted')
END

before running the trigger we need to create one table:
------------------------------------------------------
create or replace table CustomerLogs(loginid int IDENTITY(1,1) NOT NULL,customerid int,Action varchar(50))



insert into sample values(4,'chandu','hyd')


enabling and disabling the trigger for a particular table.

ENABLE TRIGGER CUSTOMER_INSERT_TRIGGER on sample

DISABLE TRIGGER CUSTOMER_INSERT_TRIGGER on sample

to check the log table which is storing the events.
-------------------------------------------------
select * from CustomerLogs

to view all the list of triggers:
--------------------------------
select * from sys.triggers


