Introduction
What is Exploratory Data Analysis ?

Exploratory Data Analysis or (EDA) is understanding the data sets by summarizing their main characteristics often plotting them visually. This step is very important especially when we arrive at modeling the data in order to apply Machine learning. Plotting in EDA consists of Histograms, Box plot, Scatter plot and many more. It often takes much time to explore the data. Through the process of EDA, we can ask to define the problem statement or definition on our data set which is very important.

How to perform Exploratory Data Analysis ?

This is one such question that everyone is keen on knowing the answer. Well, the answer is it depends on the data set that you are working. There is no one method or common methods in order to perform EDA, whereas in this tutorial you can understand some common methods and plots that would be used in the EDA process.

What data are we exploring today ?

Since I am a huge fan of cars, I got a very beautiful data-set of cars from Kaggle. The data-set can be downloaded from here. To give a piece of brief information about the data set this data contains more of 10, 000 rows and more than 10 columns which contains features of the car such as Engine Fuel Type, Engine HP, Transmission Type, highway MPG, city MPG and many more. So in this tutorial, we will explore the data and make it ready for modeling.


step1:
1. Importing the required libraries for EDA
Below are the libraries that are used in order to perform EDA (Exploratory data analysis) in this tutorial.
import pandas as pd
import numpy as np
import seaborn as sns                       #visualisation
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt             #visualisation
%matplotlib inline     
sns.set(color_codes=True)

2. Loading the data into the data frame.
Loading the data into the pandas data frame is certainly one of the most important steps in EDA, as we can see that the value from the data set is comma-separated. So all we have to do is to just read the CSV into a data frame and pandas data frame does the job for us.

df = pd.read_csv("data.csv")
# To display the top 5 rows 
df.head(5)     

To get or load the dataset into the notebook, all I did was one trivial step. In Google Colab at the left-hand side of the notebook, you will find a > (greater than symbol). When you click that you will find a tab with three options, you just have to select Files. Then you can easily upload your file with the help of the Upload option. No need to mount to the google drive or use any specific libraries just upload the data set and your job is done. One thing to remember in this step is that uploaded files will get deleted when this runtime is recycled. This is how I got the data set into the notebook.